nCounter Troubleshooting Tool (nTT)

This project was one of the first .NET projects I created, serving to provide the Nanostring technical support team with a go to resource for nCounter platform troubleshooting and data quality evaluation. At the time this project started in late 2017 I had become generally familiar with C# language and LINQ and basically new enough to automate the stuff I needed to with decent performance. Learning more about ideal use of the elements of OOP came gradually over time and documentation ... became more consistent.

Functionality:
The purpose of including this repo on GitHub is just to demo the functionality I was able to include in the tool. The tool is able to load RCCs and/or MTX files, merge RCC and MTX from the same lanes of the same cartridge, find log files associated with the loaded MTX files, and import RLF and PKC files as needed via dialogs. The tool recursively scans zips and/or directories for all the file types it can ingest and creates of table of the loaded lanes (whether defined by RCCs, MTX, or both). 
Diagnostics, tables, and figures that can be created by the tool depend on the file types available with Gen2 and Gen2.5 MTX files allowing an automated log file analysis (Gen2 log analysis tool or Gen2LAT) specific to Max/Flex/Pro platforms and Gen3 (Sprint) MTX files allowing a Sprint-specific automated analysis (SLAT for Sprint log analysis tool). Both Gen2 and Gen3 analyses open in a tabbed control with pages for general info, summaries of the 3 sections of MTX files (CodeSummary, FOV lane averages, and string classes) plus pages for individual lanes as well as for focus calibration. Figures and tables are all copyable and saveable and some of the figures have an interactive function allowing users to explore signal traces at any resolution. In the case of the Gen2LAT and effort was made to automate diagnosis such that issue flags are ordered in the first page summary by priority of importance to the root cause. 
The tool includes a set of visualizations for data quality evaluation, particularly in relation to any identified QC flags, helping to determine if the QC issues had any impact on the linearity or dynamic range of the data. To monitor dynamic a stacked bar chart shows proportion of targets in count bins related to margin of error as related to QC flags. A clustering and heatmap function is included (either Z-score expression or correlation distance to point out outliers and intra vs inter-group heterogeneity) with color bars to show flags or sample covariates. A correlation scatter plot is useful for showing reproducibility, linearity affects, and DE. The plot and correlation statistics respond in real time to low count filtering to help with identifying reproducibility thresholds. Finally a PCA plot helps relate sample covariates and flags to the variation in expression and to outliers.

Lots of effort was put into making the workflow/UI as simple, flexible, and transparent as possible with the least number of clicks and navigation to reaching a result. 

Design: The tool is a winforms desktop app (Framework 4.6.1) with a few R files called for running heatmaps and PCA plotting (. Being started before I had learned much about OOP and each part developed as quickly as possible to get to something functional is haphazard and lacking in patterns for code re-use and easy maintainability. Fortunately, since it's not particularly complex this hasn't been an issue with maintaining. 
